# Problem 2: Even Fibonacci Numbers

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms.By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:\
     ```1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...```\
By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.


## Solution:
For this problem I'm going to leverage Elixir's pattern matching and tail-call optimization. Doing it this way speeds up the "recursion" significantly.

The module EvenFib has three definitions of `fib_accumulator/3` which takes the following three arguments:
1. `value_current` (i.e. `fib(n)`)
2. `val_next` (i.e. `fin(n+1)`)
3. `acc` (i.e. the running sum of EVEN Fibonacci numbers)

### Clause 1 - pattern match against val1+val2 - see if ceiling reached
If `val_current` exceeds 4 million (the ceiling specified by the problem), return the calculated accumulator. This ensures we STOP once we reach the 4 million ceiling.

### Clause 2 - pattern match against `val_current` - see if even
If `val_current` is even, add that to the `acc` and move to the next Fibonacci number.

### Clause 3: no guards
If none of the previous guards pass, we can assume `val_current` is odd,, therefore we can simply move on to the next Fibonacci number and pass through the incoming accumulator.


## Result:
```
elixir even_fibonacci.exs
4613732
```

Leveraging tail-call optimization with Elixir makes this solution incredibly fast.
We can time the call to `EvenFibSum.run()` by wrapping it in a `:timer.tc` call:

```
elixir even_fibonacci.exs
{0, 4613732}
```
That's 0 microseconds on a 16GB M2 Mac, meaning the execution happens _faster_ than the lowest granularity of time that `:timer.tc` can resolve. 
